Add Nighthawk docs (#181)
layer5io/getnighthawk: docs/collections/_docs/building-nighthawk.md

---
layout: docs
title: Building and Using Nighthawk
section: "Getting Started"
---

# Building Nighthawk

> Although GetNighthawk would provide all of the features available in Nighthawk, you can also build Nighthawk and run it from source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While GetNighthawk distribution are a convenient way of using Nighthawk, you can also build Nighthawk and run it from source.
```

## Clone the Nighthawk repo

Using GitHub CLI:

```
gh repo clone envoyproxy/nighthawk
```

Using HTTPS:

```
git clone https://github.com/envoyproxy/nighthawk.git
```

## Install Dependencies

On Ubuntu, run the following:

```console
sudo apt-get install \
    autoconf \
    automake \
    cmake \
    curl \
    libtool \
    make \
    ninja-build \
    patch \
    python3-pip \
    unzip \
    virtualenv
```

Install [Golang](https://golang.org/) on your machine. This is required as part of building [BoringSSL](https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl/+/HEAD/BUILDING.md) and also for [Buildifer](https://github.com/bazelbuild/buildtools) which is used for formatting bazel BUILD files.

## Building Nighthawk

Run:

```
bazel build -c opt //:nighthawk
```

> # Using the Nighthawk CLI

Reviewer: Move this section out of the building-nighthawk page into a new page.

http2, http3]. The default protocol is 'http1' when neither of --h2 or
--protocol is used. Mutually exclusive with --h2.

--h2
DEPRECATED, use --protocol instead. Encapsulate requests in HTTP/2.
Mutually exclusive with --protocol. Requests are encapsulated in
HTTP/1 by default when neither of --h2 or --protocol is used.

--timeout <uint32_t>
Connection connect timeout period in seconds. Default: 30.

--duration <uint32_t>
The number of seconds that the test should run. Default: 5. Mutually
exclusive with --no-duration.

--connections <uint32_t>
The maximum allowed number of concurrent connections per event loop.
HTTP/1 only. Default: 100.

--rps <uint32_t>
The target requests-per-second rate. Default: 5.

--,  --ignore_rest
Ignores the rest of the labeled arguments following this flag.

--version
Displays version information and exits.

-h,  --help
Displays usage information and exits.

<uri format>
URI to benchmark. http:// and https:// are supported, but in case of
https no certificates are validated. Provide a URI when you need to
benchmark a single endpoint. For multiple endpoints, set
--multi-target-* instead.

> L7 (HTTP/HTTPS/HTTP2) performance characterization tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
